# Types of Testing (Developer)
- Unit Testing
    - Testing react components in isolation
    - Example : Test header component - We Will just try to render only header
    - Testing a small component otr 1 unit of the react application
- Integration Testing
    - Testing the integration of the components
    - Multiple components talk to each other
    - We develop a flow and we test that
    - Example: Searching
        - When we search anything, we need to display cards accordingly
- E2E(End to End Testing)
    - Start testing from user landing onto the page till user leaving the page
    - We will test the full flow of the app
    - End to end testing requires tools like cypress, puppiter, selenium
- Developers are responsible for Unit and Integration testing

# React Testing Library
- Built on top of DOM testing Library(base of all testing libraries)
- Integrate React Testing Library- npm install -D @testing-library/react
- React testing Library uses JEST
- JEST - delightful javascript testing framework which focuses on simplicity
- DOM testing library or react testing library use JEST behind the scenes
- npm install -D jest
- https://jestjs.io/docs/getting-started#using-babel   (Install the babel dependencies present in this site)
- Configure Babel (babel.config.js)
- Parcel already uses babel by default. It has its own config for babel
- Now we are trying to add extra config. So parcel will get confused. So we need to change parcel behaviour to accomodate babel
- Configure parcel config file(.parcelrc) to disable babel configuration (from parcel docs)

### Jest configuration
- npx jest --init
    - √ Would you like to use Typescript for the configuration file? ... no
    - √ Choose the test environment that will be used for testing » jsdom (browser-like)
    - √ Do you want Jest to add coverage reports? ... yes
    - √ Which provider should be used to instrument code for coverage? » babel
    - √ Automatically clear mock calls, instances, contexts and results before every test? ... yes
- Install jsdom library(it is like a browser but not a browser(browser-like))
- npm install --save-dev jest-environment-jsdom

## Testing
- Testing file name convention -> header.test.js
- Test folder __ tests __
- __ = Dunder
- Test Case :
-           test("description" , ()=>{
                const result = sum(3,4);
                expect(result).toBe(7);      //Assertion
            })
- npm install -D @babel/preset-react   - to enable JSX in test cases
- Include @babel/preset-react inside my babel configuration
-           [("@babel/preset-react", { runtime: "automatic" })],
- Preset is helping to convert the JSX into HTML code
- npm install -D @testing-library/jest-dom -> to install toBeInTheDocument
- npm run test
- Whenever there are multiple items we have to use getAllBy...
- Use "Describe" to group the test cases
- We can use "it" as alias of "test"

- Test cases work even when we are offline
- We are using mock data because we are working on browser like platform(jsdom). So it cannot make actual api calls.